#summary Release notes for 1.2 version.

We are proud to present a new Python package:

  iocbio.microscope - a Python package for deconvolving 3D microscope images

that is part of an open-source software iocbio from the Laboratory of Systems Biology.

Iocbio.microscope software package allows to deconvolve microscope images. In addition to the deconvolution program, the package includes of the set of tools that are required for processing the images, estimation of point spread function (PSF) and visualizing the results. This software is written in Python and is released with an open-source license (see below). 

Homepage: http://code.google.com/p/iocbio/wiki/IOCBioMicroscope
Tutorial: http://code.google.com/p/iocbio/wiki/DeconvolutionTutorial
Iocbio API documentation: http://sysbio.ioc.ee/download/software/iocbio/index.html
Sources and download: http://iocbio.googlecode.com

Iocbio is developed under Linux (ubuntu) but will also run under Windows
(we provide installer for Windows users to ease the process of setting
up the iocbio software as well as its prerequisites).

License and reference
---------------------

The iocbio package is distributed using an open-source license (BSD). In addition to the terms of the license, we ask to acknowledge the use of the package in scientific articles by citing the following paper:

Laasmaa, M, Vendelin, M, Peterson, P (2011). Application of regularized Richardson-Lucy algorithm for deconvolution of confocal microscopy images. J. Microscopy. Volume 243, Issue 2, pages 124–140, August 2011:

  http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1365-2818.2011.03486.x/abstract